>> Jem: So next we need to install Gulp.
So we wanna install Gulp globally,
so when we run it,
we run it from the command line.
Otherwise we have to do /nodeModules/Gulp/
something, and that's messy,
so we install things globally.
So, everybody do npm install -g Gulp.
This one, it doesn't matter
where you install it from.
Doesn't have to be var,
because we're installing it globally.
>> Jem: And
I'm gonna go ahead and run that as well.
So mpm i -g gulp
>> Jem: Permission error.
All that work for nothing.
Yes because we're golf and
solitude/usr/local/lib.
It's not owned by a user,
it's owned by root.
So, the naive approach is let's just
change ownership of local
lib to the current owner.
Don't do that, it'll break everything.
So, what we have to do in this case
is we're going to follow MPMs steps.
I didn't even make slides for it because
their steps are so much better than ours.
But what we're essentially gonna do is
we're gonna point our npm repo into
a different repo that we own, okay?
So everybody that jumped ahead and
tried to global install,
you probably ran into this error, and
you're like, what did I do wrong?
Nothing, that was deliberate.
So,
>> Jem: First we
need to make this directory,
because it doesn't exist.
This is I've run through
all these slides before.
Yeah, thanks.
I've read through all these slides before,
and
their instructions will tell you to
make something that will throw an error.
So first, make this directory.
sudo mkdir -p /usr/local/lib/node_modules.
Because that currently doesn't exist, so
when we run the NPM steps, it will break.
So, I'm going to do that as well.
So, sudo
mkdir dash p
>> Speaker 2: mkdir
is spelled wrong.
>> Jem: Thank you
>> [NOISE]
>> Jem: Local/lib.
I think that's what it was.
Node_modules.
Okay.
Everybody with me so far?
Excellent.
So we're just gonna use the npm docs for
this particular incidents because well,
they're pretty solid.
And honestly,
this is how I get stuffed on as well.
I look stuff up and I do it.
So, just a common problem,
enough that they have documentation.
So first, let's run this command.
Let me make this bigger.
Let's run this command in our server and
see what comes up.
So, MPM.
Config.
Get prefix.
And this is just gonna tell,
it's just gonna tell us where MPMs
actually looking for the global installs.
Let me clear this out.
Config.
Flushes your local perfect so
that's that's exactly what it should be.
If it's not, well it is because we're all
the same box again this is the importance
of using the same distribution.
I've run into the thing where if you use
something slightly different at this point
if you're running npm config get prefix
it could be /usr instead of /usr/local.
If it's /usr you have to
go through all these steps.
This is why we all are on the same
distribution, lessons learned.
So, what we're gonna do is we're gonna
chown, we're gonna change ownership of
that directory along with the rest of
these directories to our current user.
So, that way we don't have
to suedo install everything.
You should never, ever suedo MPM install
anything because when you install it
you're installing as the root user,
not your current user.
So in this case, I'm going to copy
paste because I'm lazy and it's 3:00.
But feel free to type out if you
want to be a better than me.
And I'm just going to show this.
Cool.
So now, -g gulp, hopefully
this works, fingers crossed.
And it installed correctly, so everything
ran, probably cuz I copy pasted it,
didn't trust my own typing.
>> Jem: This who
am I command just the case,
it tells you what user you are,
so if you run that as
a dollar sign who am I?
It's gonna try to execute
this as an actual command,
which jem is not a package.
So.
>> Speaker 2: You could have
also used $USER at that point.
>> Jem: Absolutely,
I should have just used that,
but I was copy and
pasting.
>> Jem: So,
is everybody with me so far?
>> Jem: We copied this from the npm docs.
And we're just changing ownership of
the npm directory to our current users so
that we don't have to
pseudo-install global modules.
>> Jem: Thank, Mark, for pasting that in.
>> Jem: Yes, there we are, slide 124.
We have about 11 more to go.
So, almost there.
>> Jem: Okay so
now gulp Let's go ahead and
make sure gulp is up and running.
Now make sure I'm in my working directory.
Clear.
So, I should be able to run gulp build and
all the tasks complete successfully.
If you have a syntax error,
you're about to discover that you
have a syntax error at this point.
The Gulp task will not complete.
>> Jem: If we ls our dist file,
we see that we have only two files
that we're gonna serve out for
our web page main.min.css and
main.min.js file
>> Jem: Okay so, here's our Gulp locally,
globally, we have the ability
now to install npm modules
globally without having a pseudo command,
which is very useful.
I have done the pseudo install, and
it's a nasty business that you just have
to keep pseudoing every single time.
And it's just unpleasant.
So, it's a little bit extra work
to do it right the first time, but
it's better in the long run.